# RandoSettingsManager

A Hollow Knight mod that reimplements and extends Randomizer's settings sharing and preset management with rich support for connection mods.

## Usage

Navigate to More Randomizer Settings -> Manage Settings Profiles as you normally would. The original
page has been replaced, but you can go back to the "classic" experience at any time by clicking the
"Classic Settings Management" toggle above the back button.

## Features

### Quick Share

Quick Share replaces Rando4's settings code and adds opt-in support for connections to include their
settings. Clicking on "Create Key" will create a profile with a seed and version checking, upload it
to a server, and generate a unique key to share from your clipboard. Others can then copy the key and
click "Paste Key." The Create Key button will list out which mods are included in the profile, while the
Paste Key button will list out any validation errors, or if successful, will list out any connections
which had settings applied. Any mods not listed will need to be handled manually.

### Temporary Profiles

Quick Share will usually be the preferred way to share settings for races and itemsyncs. However, to
minimize operational costs, codes generated by quick share will only last 24 hours. Temporary profiles
can be used to share settings with a seed and version checking over a longer period of time. Clicking
"Create Temporary Profile" will create such a profile in the `Randomizer 4/Profiles` directory in your
saves folder named `temp.zip`. Others can then put that zip file in the same location on their computer,
and it will be automatically extracted and applied while on the settings management page. 

The temporary profile is automatically deleted when you leave the page, or after it has been applied. 
To keep the settings, you can create a long-lived profile after the settings have been applied.

### Long-lived Profiles

On the manage profiles page, you can create a new profile or select an existing one. These profiles do not
perform any version checking and do not include a seed. Diagnostic messages are not displayed when saving
and loading profiles if the operation was successful; you're expected to know which connections are
included in your profile. Profiles are stored in the `Randomizer 4/Profiles` directory in your saves folder
in such a way that they can be edited by hand if desired.

Profiles created by rando's original profile management will be automatically imported on first load;
they'll only include settings for rando, as you might expect. You can apply the settings, enable any
supported connections, and then override the profile's settings to add any connections you'd usually use.